README.md, before:

# yarn-deduplicate

Builds:
![Node.js CI](https://github.com/atlassian/yarn-deduplicate/workflows/Node.js%20CI/badge.svg)

This package only works with Yarn v1. Yarn v2 supports package deduplication
[natively](https://github.com/yarnpkg/berry/pull/1558)!

Cleans up `yarn.lock` by removing duplicates.

A duplicate package is when two dependencies are resolved to a different version, even when a single
version matches the range specified in the dependencies. See the
[Deduplication strategies](#deduplication-strategies) section for a few examples.

## Installation

Install the package globally:

```sh
npm install -g yarn-deduplicate
```

or

```sh
yarn global add yarn-deduplicate
```

This package also works wth
[npx](https://medium.com/@maybekatz/introducing-npx-an-npm-package-runner-55f7d4bd282b), so you
don't need to install it.

---

## Usage

The most common scenario is to run

```sh
yarn-deduplicate yarn.lock
```

This will use the default strategy to remove duplicated packages in `yarn.lock`.

If you do not specify the yarn.lock path, it defaults to `yarn.lock`.

Check all available options with:

```sh
yarn-deduplicate --help
```

---

## Duplicated packages

`yarn.lock` contains a list of all the dependencies required by your project (including transitive
dependencies), and the actual package version installed to satisfy those dependencies.

For the context of this project, a "duplicated package" is a package that appears on multiple nodes
of the dependency tree with overlapping version ranges but resolved to different versions.

For example, imagine that your project directly depends on `lodash` and `babel`, and `babel` depends
on `lodash` as well. Specifically, your project depends on `lodash@^1.0.0` and `babel` depends on
`lodash@^1.1.0`. Because how the resolution algorithm works in Yarn, you might end up with two
different copies of `lodash` (for example, version `1.0.1` and `1.2.0`) in your project, even when
`1.2.0` will suffice to satisfy both requirements for `lodash`. That's a "duplicated package".

It is important to note that we do not consider duplicated packages when the version ranges don't
overlap. For example, if your project depends on `underscore@^1.0.0` and `underscore@^2.0.0`. Your
project will end up with two versions of `underscore`, and `yarn-deduplicate` won't change that.

When using `yarn-deduplicate` remember that **it will change your dependency tree**. There are
certain code paths that now will run with a different set of dependencies. It is highly recommended
that you review each change to `yarn.lock`. If the change is too big, use the flag `--packages` to
deduplicate them gradually.

### Why is this necessary?

Yarn documentation seems to suggest this package shouldn't be necessary. For example, in
https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/dedupe/, it says

> The dedupe command isn’t necessary. `yarn install` will already dedupe.

This is, however, not exactly true. There are cases where yarn will _not_ deduplicate existing
packages. For example, this scenario:

- Install `libA`. It depends on `libB ^1.1.0`. At this point, the latest version of `libB` is
  `1.1.2`, so it gets installed as a transitive dependency in your repo

- After a few days, install `libC`. It also depends on `libB ^1.1.0`. But this time, the latest
  `libB` version is `1.1.3`.

In the above scenario, you'll end up with `libB@1.1.2` and `libB@1.1.3` in your repo.

Find more examples in:

- [yarn-deduplicate — The Hero We Need](https://medium.com/@bnaya/yarn-deduplicate-the-hero-we-need-f4497a362128)
- [De-duplicating yarn.lock](https://medium.com/@scinos/de-duplicating-yarn-lock-ae30be4aa41a)
- https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/3778

### Deduplication strategies

`--strategy <strategy>`

`highest` will try to use the highest installed version. For example, with the following
`yarn.lock`:

```text
library@^1.1.0:
  version "1.2.0"

library@^1.2.0:
  version "1.2.0"

library@^1.3.0:
  version "1.3.0"
```

It will deduplicate `library@^1.1.0` and `library@^1.2.0` to `1.3.0`

`fewer` will try to minimize the number of installed versions by trying to deduplicate to the
version that satisfies most of the ranges first. For example, with the following `yarn.lock`:

```text
library@*:
  version "2.0.0"

library@>=1.1.0:
  version "3.0.0"

library@^1.2.0:
  version "1.2.0"
```

It will deduplicate `library@*` and `library@>=1.1.0` to `1.2.0`.

Note that this may cause some packages to be **downgraded**. Be sure to check the changelogs between
all versions and understand the consequences of that downgrade. If unsure, don't use this strategy.

It is not recommended to use different strategies for different packages. There is no guarantee that
the strategy will be honored in subsequent runs of `yarn-deduplicate` unless the same set of flags
is specified again.

### Progressive deduplication

`--packages <package1> <package2> <packageN>`

Receives a list of packages to deduplicate. It will ignore any other duplicated package not in the
list. This option is recommended when the number of duplicated packages in `yarn.lock` is too big to
be easily reviewed by a human. This will allow for a more controlled and progressive deduplication
of `yarn.lock`.

`--scopes <scope1> <scope2> <scopeN>`

Receives a list of scopes to deduplicate. It will ignore any other duplicated package not in the
list. This option is recommended when deduplicating a large number of inter-dependent packages from
a single scope, such as @babel. This will allow for a more controlled and progressive deduplication
of `yarn.lock` without specifying each package individually.

### Pre-release versions

By default, `yarn-deduplicate` will only match pre-release versions if they share they share the
same `major`, `minor` and `patch` versions (example: `^1.2.3-alpha.1` and `1.2.3-alpha.2` can be
deduplicated, but `^1.2.3` and `1.2.4-alpha.1` can't). This matches the behaviour of
[semver](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/semver#prerelease-tags).

To change this behaviour you can use the flag `--includePrerelease`. This will treat all pre-release
versionas as if they were normal versions (`^1.2.3` and `1.2.4-alpha.1` can be deduplicated).

### Usage in CI

This tool can be used as part of a CI workflow. Adding the flag `--fail` will force the process to
exit with status 1 if there are duplicated packages. Example:

```sh
# Print the list of duplicated packages and exit with status 1
yarn-deduplicate --list --fail

# Deduplicate yarn.lock and exit with status 1 if changes were required
yarn-deduplicate --fail
```

---

## Migration guide

### From 2.x to 3.x

In this version we have adopted variadic arguments from commander.js. These are the equivalent
commands:

```sh
#Old
yarn-deduplicate --packages libA,libB
yarn-deduplicate --scopes @scopeA,@scopeB
yarn-deduplicate --exclude libA,libB

#New
yarn-deduplicate --packages libA libB
yarn-deduplicate --scopes @scopeA @scopeB
yarn-deduplicate --exclude libA libB
```

A consequence of this change is that if you were using one or more of the affected options (
`--packages`, `--scopes` or `--exclude`) **and** a custom path for `yarn.lock`, you need to use `--`
to "stop" package/scope/exclude parsing:

```sh
yarn-deduplicate --packages libA libB -- path/to/yarn.lock
```

### From 0.x to 1.x

In this version we have renamed the project and refactored the CLI. These are the equivalent
commands:

#### Installation

```sh
# Old
npm install -g yarn-tools

# New
npm install -g yarn-deduplicate
```

#### List duplicates

```sh
# Old
yarn-tools list-duplicates path/to/yarn.lock

# New
yarn-deduplicate --list path/to/yarn.lock
```

### Deduplicate yarn.lock

```sh
# Old
yarn-tools fix-duplicates path/to/yarn.lock > tmp
mv tmp path/to/yarn.lock

# New
yarn-deduplicate path/to/yarn.lock
```

### Limit packages to deduplicate yarn.lock

```sh
# Old
yarn-tools fix-duplicates path/to/yarn.lock package1 package2


# New
yarn-deduplicate --packages package1,package2 path/to/yarn.lock
```

## Contributors

Pull requests, issues and comments welcome. For pull requests:

- Add tests for new features and bug fixes
- Follow the existing style
- Separate unrelated changes into multiple pull requests

See the existing issues for things to start contributing.

For bigger changes, make sure you start a discussion first by creating an issue and explaining the
intended change.

Atlassian requires contributors to sign a Contributor License Agreement, known as a CLA. This serves
as a record stating that the contributor is entitled to contribute the
code/documentation/translation to the project and is willing to have it used in distributions and
derivative works (or is willing to transfer ownership).

Prior to accepting your contributions we ask that you please follow the appropriate link below to
digitally sign the CLA. The Corporate CLA is for those who are contributing as a member of an
organization and the individual CLA is for those contributing as an individual.

- [CLA for corporate contributors](https://opensource.atlassian.com/corporate)
- [CLA for individuals](https://opensource.atlassian.com/individual)

## License

Copyright (c) 2017 Atlassian and others. Apache 2.0 licensed, see [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) file.

Commit message:

Add docs about excluding packages

README.md, after:

# yarn-deduplicate

Builds:
![Node.js CI](https://github.com/atlassian/yarn-deduplicate/workflows/Node.js%20CI/badge.svg)

This package only works with Yarn v1. Yarn v2 supports package deduplication
[natively](https://github.com/yarnpkg/berry/pull/1558)!

Cleans up `yarn.lock` by removing duplicates.

A duplicate package is when two dependencies are resolved to a different version, even when a single
version matches the range specified in the dependencies. See the
[Deduplication strategies](#deduplication-strategies) section for a few examples.

## Installation

Install the package globally:

```sh
npm install -g yarn-deduplicate
```

or

```sh
yarn global add yarn-deduplicate
```

This package also works wth
[npx](https://medium.com/@maybekatz/introducing-npx-an-npm-package-runner-55f7d4bd282b), so you
don't need to install it.

---

## Usage

The most common scenario is to run

```sh
yarn-deduplicate yarn.lock
```

This will use the default strategy to remove duplicated packages in `yarn.lock`.

If you do not specify the yarn.lock path, it defaults to `yarn.lock`.

Check all available options with:

```sh
yarn-deduplicate --help
```

---

## Duplicated packages

`yarn.lock` contains a list of all the dependencies required by your project (including transitive
dependencies), and the actual package version installed to satisfy those dependencies.

For the context of this project, a "duplicated package" is a package that appears on multiple nodes
of the dependency tree with overlapping version ranges but resolved to different versions.

For example, imagine that your project directly depends on `lodash` and `babel`, and `babel` depends
on `lodash` as well. Specifically, your project depends on `lodash@^1.0.0` and `babel` depends on
`lodash@^1.1.0`. Because how the resolution algorithm works in Yarn, you might end up with two
different copies of `lodash` (for example, version `1.0.1` and `1.2.0`) in your project, even when
`1.2.0` will suffice to satisfy both requirements for `lodash`. That's a "duplicated package".

It is important to note that we do not consider duplicated packages when the version ranges don't
overlap. For example, if your project depends on `underscore@^1.0.0` and `underscore@^2.0.0`. Your
project will end up with two versions of `underscore`, and `yarn-deduplicate` won't change that.

When using `yarn-deduplicate` remember that **it will change your dependency tree**. There are
certain code paths that now will run with a different set of dependencies. It is highly recommended
that you review each change to `yarn.lock`. If the change is too big, use the flag `--packages` to
deduplicate them gradually.

### Why is this necessary?

Yarn documentation seems to suggest this package shouldn't be necessary. For example, in
https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/dedupe/, it says

> The dedupe command isn’t necessary. `yarn install` will already dedupe.

This is, however, not exactly true. There are cases where yarn will _not_ deduplicate existing
packages. For example, this scenario:

- Install `libA`. It depends on `libB ^1.1.0`. At this point, the latest version of `libB` is
  `1.1.2`, so it gets installed as a transitive dependency in your repo

- After a few days, install `libC`. It also depends on `libB ^1.1.0`. But this time, the latest
  `libB` version is `1.1.3`.

In the above scenario, you'll end up with `libB@1.1.2` and `libB@1.1.3` in your repo.

Find more examples in:

- [yarn-deduplicate — The Hero We Need](https://medium.com/@bnaya/yarn-deduplicate-the-hero-we-need-f4497a362128)
- [De-duplicating yarn.lock](https://medium.com/@scinos/de-duplicating-yarn-lock-ae30be4aa41a)
- https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/3778

### Deduplication strategies

`--strategy <strategy>`

`highest` will try to use the highest installed version. For example, with the following
`yarn.lock`:

```text
library@^1.1.0:
  version "1.2.0"

library@^1.2.0:
  version "1.2.0"

library@^1.3.0:
  version "1.3.0"
```

It will deduplicate `library@^1.1.0` and `library@^1.2.0` to `1.3.0`

`fewer` will try to minimize the number of installed versions by trying to deduplicate to the
version that satisfies most of the ranges first. For example, with the following `yarn.lock`:

```text
library@*:
  version "2.0.0"

library@>=1.1.0:
  version "3.0.0"

library@^1.2.0:
  version "1.2.0"
```

It will deduplicate `library@*` and `library@>=1.1.0` to `1.2.0`.

Note that this may cause some packages to be **downgraded**. Be sure to check the changelogs between
all versions and understand the consequences of that downgrade. If unsure, don't use this strategy.

It is not recommended to use different strategies for different packages. There is no guarantee that
the strategy will be honored in subsequent runs of `yarn-deduplicate` unless the same set of flags
is specified again.

### Progressive deduplication

`--packages <package1> <package2> <packageN>`

Receives a list of packages to deduplicate. It will ignore any other duplicated package not in the
list. This option is recommended when the number of duplicated packages in `yarn.lock` is too big to
be easily reviewed by a human. This will allow for a more controlled and progressive deduplication
of `yarn.lock`.

`--scopes <scope1> <scope2> <scopeN>`

Receives a list of scopes to deduplicate. It will ignore any other duplicated package not in the
list. This option is recommended when deduplicating a large number of inter-dependent packages from
a single scope, such as @babel. This will allow for a more controlled and progressive deduplication
of `yarn.lock` without specifying each package individually.

### Excluding packages

`--exclude <package1> <package2> <packageN`

`--exclude-scopes <scope1> <scope2> <scopeN>`

With these commands you can exclude certain packages/scopes from the deduplication process. This is
specially useful if you want to apply a different strategy for a scope, for example.

### Pre-release versions

By default, `yarn-deduplicate` will only match pre-release versions if they share they share the
same `major`, `minor` and `patch` versions (example: `^1.2.3-alpha.1` and `1.2.3-alpha.2` can be
deduplicated, but `^1.2.3` and `1.2.4-alpha.1` can't). This matches the behaviour of
[semver](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/semver#prerelease-tags).

To change this behaviour you can use the flag `--includePrerelease`. This will treat all pre-release
versionas as if they were normal versions (`^1.2.3` and `1.2.4-alpha.1` can be deduplicated).

### Usage in CI

This tool can be used as part of a CI workflow. Adding the flag `--fail` will force the process to
exit with status 1 if there are duplicated packages. Example:

```sh
# Print the list of duplicated packages and exit with status 1
yarn-deduplicate --list --fail

# Deduplicate yarn.lock and exit with status 1 if changes were required
yarn-deduplicate --fail
```

---

## Migration guide

### From 2.x to 3.x

In this version we have adopted variadic arguments from commander.js. These are the equivalent
commands:

```sh
#Old
yarn-deduplicate --packages libA,libB
yarn-deduplicate --scopes @scopeA,@scopeB
yarn-deduplicate --exclude libA,libB

#New
yarn-deduplicate --packages libA libB
yarn-deduplicate --scopes @scopeA @scopeB
yarn-deduplicate --exclude libA libB
```

A consequence of this change is that if you were using one or more of the affected options (
`--packages`, `--scopes` or `--exclude`) **and** a custom path for `yarn.lock`, you need to use `--`
to "stop" package/scope/exclude parsing:

```sh
yarn-deduplicate --packages libA libB -- path/to/yarn.lock
```

### From 0.x to 1.x

In this version we have renamed the project and refactored the CLI. These are the equivalent
commands:

#### Installation

```sh
# Old
npm install -g yarn-tools

# New
npm install -g yarn-deduplicate
```

#### List duplicates

```sh
# Old
yarn-tools list-duplicates path/to/yarn.lock

# New
yarn-deduplicate --list path/to/yarn.lock
```

### Deduplicate yarn.lock

```sh
# Old
yarn-tools fix-duplicates path/to/yarn.lock > tmp
mv tmp path/to/yarn.lock

# New
yarn-deduplicate path/to/yarn.lock
```

### Limit packages to deduplicate yarn.lock

```sh
# Old
yarn-tools fix-duplicates path/to/yarn.lock package1 package2


# New
yarn-deduplicate --packages package1,package2 path/to/yarn.lock
```

## Contributors

Pull requests, issues and comments welcome. For pull requests:

- Add tests for new features and bug fixes
- Follow the existing style
- Separate unrelated changes into multiple pull requests

See the existing issues for things to start contributing.

For bigger changes, make sure you start a discussion first by creating an issue and explaining the
intended change.

Atlassian requires contributors to sign a Contributor License Agreement, known as a CLA. This serves
as a record stating that the contributor is entitled to contribute the
code/documentation/translation to the project and is willing to have it used in distributions and
derivative works (or is willing to transfer ownership).

Prior to accepting your contributions we ask that you please follow the appropriate link below to
digitally sign the CLA. The Corporate CLA is for those who are contributing as a member of an
organization and the individual CLA is for those contributing as an individual.

- [CLA for corporate contributors](https://opensource.atlassian.com/corporate)
- [CLA for individuals](https://opensource.atlassian.com/individual)

## License

Copyright (c) 2017 Atlassian and others. Apache 2.0 licensed, see [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) file.
